methods-
get - read 
post - create
patch - update the record
put - update 
delete - delete 
option- pre flight check


html file create DOM 

in js we actually create  http  request

js has two parts 
1- js specifications
2- runtime api -- provided by browser - settimeout , console etc

browser also provides fetch
syntax of fetch-
	fetch(url,options)

both gonna create runtime envt.





Project 1 - notes

token for user authentication 

frontend - 
index file , css files , js files(http reques,DOM,Update Dom)

----------backend------------
npm start
after server started 
postman - new collection
- post - local host url -body section 
test - validate
wrong data  - name , email , pswd
	bad request , 400 status code 


save 
again post - login page check kro , data save hua k nahi , we will get data
and it will have token 


3rd part - backend data daala 
and postman pe 

unauthorised - bcz it needs token , 
token is not stored anywhere , we store token in frontend 
toekn will be decrypted using secret key , so jitni baar server open hoga it will get login

server can store expiry date

full stack project - view documentation - publish 
 url for publication 

cors - 


-----------Frontend------------

methods-
get - read 
post - create
patch - update the record
put - update 
delete - delete 
option- pre fight check


401 - unauthorised 

without authorization api will not return anything , only unauthorised mssg will be displayed

3 sections in main

html - height 100%

body - margin 0 , height 100, display flex

main - fles , flex=1 

section - flex 1 . box sizing , display flex  , flex direction - column , align items - center

form

div - for user input  - input with class input - 

form - display flex 
space around


we r going to grab elements in dom.js file -
 getelementby id 
nameinput , email , password 

registerbtn event listener
prevent default to prevent submit by itself
 


-------- main.js-----
 - function user bnayenge
defer is used , 
function for extracting data values

convert to json string using stringify

send data to server
call function in js - registerapi


----http js--------

asyc, await , fetch url ,method post body

when it is done ,alert in main 




-----ntwrk------
CORS error - 

nothing in response , preview 

port num is different - server will not allow 5500 request on port nummber 9182 (anything) - request rejected


pre flight request - browser send dummy option before actual request - bkend (cors install etc.)




second - 
dom - take inputs of email pswrd like beofore



local Storage.setItem('token',token)
islogged in = true after login

function to get data from local storage 
application - local storage - token hoga

main- login ke andr - getnews

http - get news function ,fetch news , method - get , authorization - token 

response : data  , error

response is sgetting convert , and destructure , 
in data we r gonna get token only 

login response will retuen data and err


registeruser 




--------- Styling-----------
html height - 100% - it will take entire width

so give html and body entire height as - 100%


when web page is loaded , the browser creates a Documenr Object Model.

DOM defines HTML elements as objects , the properties of all HTML elements, The methods to access all HTML elements,
the events for all HTML elements.


In other words HTML DOM is a standard for how to get , change , add or delete HTML elements.

The HTML DOM can be accessed with JS


innerHTML - it is useful for getting or replacing the content of HTML elements.


const element = document.getElementById("intro");

if the element is found , the method will return the element as an object , and if element is not found , element will contain nul.


------------ DOM ------------
DOM is a part of HTML
-- GET - to get the values
-- SET - to set the values



-------JSON-----------

JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
it is a text format for storing and transporting data

JSON is used to exchange Data to/from a web server. When sending data to a server, the data has to be a string.
ans we convert javascript object into a string with JSON.stringify().


-------- Fetch -----------

fetch function works asynchronously - it takes time to retrieve some data


-------------Content - Type Header -----------

1. it is the part of http protocol.

2. it tells the recieving machine what type of data to expect and how to interpret it









